# Lateral Movement

**UUID**: 098db976-2553-4df2-b1c1-f341652a0549
**ID**: S1008

**Description**: Lateral movement is the process of an attacker moving from one system to another within a network after they have gained initial access to a system. This can be done through a variety of methods, such as exploiting vulnerabilities in software, using stolen credentials, installing their own remote access tools, or using native system utilities.

## Are there any new accounts that have been created? <span class="dfiqIdTag">F1021</span>

 - <span class="dfiqIdTag">Q1058</span> &nbsp;What domain accounts have been created?
 - <span class="dfiqIdTag">Q1059</span> &nbsp;What local accounts have been created?
## Are the indications of an attacker moving FROM this host to another? <span class="dfiqIdTag">F1027</span>
Once an attacker has access to a system, they may want to use it to pivot to a different system. This movement, from a source host to a destination host, leaves traces on both the source and destination hosts. A given system may be both the source and destination of lateral movement at different times. This facet examines a host for indications it was the **source** host, meaning an attacker moved **FROM** it to a different destination system.

 - <a href="/questions/Q1036"><span class="dfiqIdTag">Q1036</span> &nbsp;Have there been any executions of PsExec?</a>
## Are the indications of an attacker moving TO this host? <span class="dfiqIdTag">F1028</span>
Once an attacker has access to a system, they may want to use it to pivot to a different system. This movement, from a source host to a destination host, leaves traces on both the source and destination hosts. A given system may be both the source and destination of lateral movement at different times. This facet examines a host for indications it was the **destination** host, meaning an attacker moved **TO** it from a different system.

 - <a href="/questions/Q1037"><span class="dfiqIdTag">Q1037</span> &nbsp;Have there been any executions of PsExeSrv?</a>
